# E-Learning Project

Welcome to the **E-Learning Project!** This project demonstrates the implementation of a full-stack e-learning application using **TypeScript**, **Tailwind CSS**, **Next.js**, **Next UI**, **Node.js**, **Express.js**, **MongoDB**, **Clerk**, **Swiper**, and **ZaloPay** .

## Project Overview

This web-based language learning application inspired by the PREP platform, allowing users to create personalized learning paths. The project aimed to provide an effective learning experience with convenient tools for managing progress and content. Built with modern web technologies, the application ensures a responsive and user-friendly interface, enabling users to track their development, engage with educational materials, and enhance their skills efficiently.

### Key Features:

- **Account Management**: User authentication and account management are handled securely via **Clerk**.
- **Course Consultation**: Users can submit registration details to receive course consultation.
- **Personalized Learning Path**: Based on initial assessments, users can construct a learning roadmap that aligns with their desired outcomes.
- **Promo Code Integration**: Users can apply **discount codes** when enrolling in courses.
- **Secure Payment Process**: Once a learning path is selected, users can complete transactions securely via **ZaloPay**.
- **Progress Tracking & Course Management**: Purchased courses are stored in the Learning section, where users can start, track, and resume courses at any time. Each lesson's progress is categorized as Not Started, In Progress, or Completed to help learners manage their studies effectively. Additionally, once an order is successful, users will receive an email confirmation.

## Demo

You can view a live demo of the project here: [Demo Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q51vVldTYeE&t=27s)

## Getting Started

To run this project, you need to have the following software installed on your machine:

- **Node.js**
- **npm** (Node Package Manager)
- **MongoDB**
- **Ngrok**

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository to your local machine:**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/LuanDHV/Prep-Clone-NextTS.git
```

2. **Navigate to the project directory:**

```bash
cd Prep-Clone-NextTS
```

### Setting up Environment Variables

Before starting the project, you need to create a .env file in both client and server directory. To do this:

1. **Copy the .env.example file to .env:**

2. **Configure your environment variables:**
   Open the newly copied .env file and replace the placeholders with your actual values.

### Set Up Clerk API Keys

To integrate Clerk into your application for authentication, follow these steps to get your Clerk API keys:

1. **Log in to your Clerk account:** Go to [Clerk's website](https://clerk.com/) and log in. If you don’t have an account, you can create one.
2. **Create a new application::** In the Clerk dashboard, click **Create Application**. Enter the application name and select the appropriate settings for your project.
3. **Retrieve your API keys:** Once the application is created, go to the **API Keys** section of your application. You will find the **Public key** and **Secret key**.
4. **Update the .env files:** Copy the **Public key** and **Secret key** paste it into the .env file with the API Key you got from Clerk.

### Set Up ngrok for Local Server Exposure

ngrok allows you to expose your local server to the public internet, which is useful for integrating with external services like ZaloPay, which requires a publicly accessible URL.

1. **Install ngrok:** If you haven't installed ngrok, download it from [Ngrok's website](https://ngrok.com/) and follow the installation instructions.
2. **Start ngrok:** Open your terminal and run the following command to start ngrok, exposing your local server on port 5000 (or whatever port your backend server is running on). This will generate a public URL, like **https://<random-subdomain>.ngrok-free.app.** Copy this URL.

```bash
ngrok http 5000
```

3. **Update the .env file:** In the server directory, open the .env file and update the **NGROK_ENDPOINT** variable with the URL generated by ngrok
4. **Update the .env file:** The ZaloPay payment functionality will only work if you have replaced the **NGROK_ENDPOINT** in the .env file before starting the backend server. If you start the backend server before updating the ngrok URL, you will need to restart the backend server for the changes to take effect.
5. **Use the ngrok URL:** The ngrok URL will now be accessible from external services. For example, if you're integrating ZaloPay, you can use the ngrok URL in API requests to ZaloPay's endpoints.

### Running the Project

1. **Install client dependencies:**

```bash
cd frontend
```

```bash
npm install
```

```bash
npm run dev
```

2. **Install server dependencies:**

```bash
cd backend
```

```bash
npm install
```

```bash
npm run start
```

Once this is done, the application will start running. You can now access the client at **http://localhost:3000** and interact with the server at **http://localhost:5000**.
